feat: Refactor Configuring code patterns DOCS-341 (#1933)
codacy/docs: docs/repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md

{% include-markdown "../assets/includes/admin-access-control-info.md" %}

By default, Codacy analyzes your repositories using a subset of the supported analysis tools and code patterns. These defaults are based on current best practices and community feedback, and you can adapt them to your needs in several ways:

-   [Configuring tools and code patterns using the Codacy UI](#configuring-tools-and-code-patterns-using-the-codacy-ui)
-   [Importing configurations from another repository](#import-patterns)
-   [Using tool configuration files](#using-your-own-tool-configuration-files)

## Configuring tools and code patterns using the Codacy UI

!!! note
    If you update the configurations of a repository that follows a [coding standard](../organizations/using-coding-standards.md), Codacy copies the coding standard configurations to the repository and the repository stops following the coding standard. You can then customize the repository configurations without affecting the coding standard.

To configure the tools and code patterns for a repository using the Codacy UI:

1.  Open your repository **Code patterns** page.

    ![Code patterns page](images/code-patterns.png)

> 1.  Enable or disable the tools that Codacy should use to analyze the repository.

Reviewer: > "Should" implies that it will, but it may not if it never has to (if it never finds an issue) 

But it will use the tool even if it doesn't detect an issue, right? 😄 
I find it more clear using "will". 🤓

> 1.  Enable or disable the tools that Codacy should use to analyze the repository.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Enable or disable the tools that Codacy will use to analyze the repository.
```

    ![Toggling tools](images/code-patterns-toggle-tools.png)

> 1.  Select a tool to enable or disable its code patterns.

Reviewer: The suggestion below tries to:

- Avoid having two paragraphs below the step (implies removing line 32)
- Keep the value of using the filter (to make it easier to find relevant patterns)

However, we'll get a bigger text block for the step... Do evaluate if it makes sense to you. 🙏 

```suggestion
1.  Select a tool to enable or disable its code patterns. To make it easier to find relevant patterns, use the sidebar filters. You can filter by language, issue category, or status.
```

Reviewer: Also, we could link "issue category" to the [categories description](https://docs.codacy.com/faq/code-analysis/which-metrics-does-codacy-calculate/#issues), as we dropped that part from this page.

    To filter the patterns by language, category, or status, use the sidebar filters.

    To see an explanation of the issues that a pattern detects and how to fix them, click **Show details**. Some patterns also allow you to configure the rules for detecting issues.

    !!! tip
        -   To enable a group of code patterns, use the filter to select the relevant group of patterns and click **Enable all**.

>             For example, to enable all Security patterns, click the **Security** filter and then click **Enable all**.

Reviewer: Please evaluate if this example fits ok on the above line, right after the first sentence.
It would shorten the tip. 😉

Author: Yes, it can. This is a style choice that we can discuss: I have the habit of leaving lots of white space and paragraphs but may overdo it sometimes.

    docs/repositories-configure/codacy-configuration-file.md (list of tool short names to use on the Codacy configuration file)
-->

!!! note

>     -   After activating a configuration file for a tool, Codacy uses that configuration file even if you exclude it from Codacy analysis [using the Codacy UI](ignoring-files.md) or a [Codacy configuration file](codacy-configuration-file.md#syntax-for-ignoring-files).

Reviewer: We don't need a bullet here, as it's a single note. (just noticed this while giving a last look at the preview)

```suggestion
    After activating a configuration file for a tool, Codacy uses that configuration file even if you exclude it from Codacy analysis [using the Codacy UI](ignoring-files.md) or a [Codacy configuration file](codacy-configuration-file.md#syntax-for-ignoring-files).
```

    docs/repositories-configure/codacy-configuration-file.md (list of tool short names to use on the Codacy configuration file)
-->

!!! note

>     -   Once set, Codacy uses a configuration file even if you exclude it from Codacy analysis [using the Codacy UI](ignoring-files.md) or a [Codacy configuration file](codacy-configuration-file.md#syntax-for-ignoring-files).

Reviewer: I find "Once set" a bit vague...

```suggestion
    -   After activating a configuration file for a tool, Codacy uses that configuration file even if you exclude it from Codacy analysis [using the Codacy UI](ignoring-files.md) or a [Codacy configuration file](codacy-configuration-file.md#syntax-for-ignoring-files).
```

>     -   When you update pattern settings using a configuration file, Codacy may display outdated messages for issues identified previously by those patterns.<!-- TODO Can we remove this? If not, can we clarify when this happens and if this is temporary?  -->

Reviewer: Maybe we can move this to after the procedure. Also, I would keep the "For performance reasons".

Reviewer: This sentence is still lost [by the end of the page](https://github.com/codacy/docs/pull/1933/files#diff-8b5b34d427af25055560dd40e0c14ca5d6e7e029739f9870df33f810d6435ee1R333)...  😅

Codacy supports configuration files for several static analysis tools to help you streamline your setup.

To use a configuration file for a static analysis tool:

1.  Push the configuration file to the root of the [default Codacy branch](managing-branches.md).

1.  Open the repository **Code patterns** page, select the tool of interest, and select the option **Configuration file**.

>     !!! note

Reviewer: I agree with moving this note here, but I find the original sentences more clear. 🤔 

```
-   Codacy will use the version of the configuration file **in the branch being analyzed**. For example, if you open a pull request that includes changes to the configuration file, the analysis results will take those changes into account.
-   If Codacy analyzes a branch that doesn't include the configuration file, Codacy reverts to using the code patterns configured for the tool before you selected the option **Configuration file** on the Code patterns page.
```

Author: OK. I'll just reword slightly to use the present tense.
